{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
I suggest that the camera installation instructions should be included in the appendix. Here are a couple of minor modifications I suggest:\
\
If a camera does not appear, first try clicking on "Connect my IEEE 1394 Camera", which should be visible on the right hand side of the screen. Follow the instructions for step #5. If that fails\'85\
\
9.5 To restore factory defaults in the camera prior to adjusting the settings, click on "Reset to Defaults." This will reduce the amount of time you spend searching for the best settings.\
-------------\
\
I wrote exercise 1 with the intent that it could be used either on the day the FCI is given or the next week, in combination with Exercise 2 and 3. \
\
Exercise 1:\
\
Uncertainty:\
\
-Measure the length of the side of a block using three times. \
\
-Zero the balance scale then measure the mass three times. \
 \
-Slide a block down a ramp three times and time it. What factors do you think influenced how similar your measurements were?\
\
-Please make sure the equipment is returned to the condition in which you found it before leaving lab. This is important so that the equipment is protected and so that everyone has an opportunity to obtain independent measurements. \
\
-Now that you have all your measurements, use the procedure in the appendix to determine the mean (or average) and uncertainty. \
\
------------\
\
Exercise 2:\
\
Camera distortion effects\
\
-Open the VideoRECORDER software. Real time video should be visible once you open it. If not, see the camera installation guide in the appendix. \
\
-Arrange a meter stick in the field of view of the camera such that it is clearly visible on the computer monitor. Make sure that you would be able to meaningfully measure the apparent distance on the computer monitor to different points along the ruler on the basis of what you see there. Focus the camera if necessary.  \
\
-How can you arrange the meter stick so that the most distortion is visible? The least? What do you think causes the distortion?\
\
-Once you have decided how you will arrange the meter stick and camera, take a screen capture using the "Print Screen" key on the keyboard. FILL THIS IN\
\
-Using your screen-captured image and a ruler, perform an experiment to determine whether or not the distortion of the camera is significant. One way to do this is to measure the distance along the ruler \
\
 Make a table in your lab notebooks, noting units and estimating uncertainty. How will you estimate uncertainty? Will you use repeated trials, or do this on the basis of your knowledge about the measurements? \
\
-Plot the results of your table in your lab notebook. Use at least half a page, and include error bars which represent the uncertainty you estimate for your measurements. \
\
-What did you predict this plot should look like in the absence of distortion? Draw a dashed line or curve on the plot that qualitatively describes the trend you expected to see, fitting it to the data when possible. Refer to your Warm Up Questions or Predictions if necessary. \
\
-How does your prediction compare to how the data looks in reality? Do you believe the difference is significant given the error bars depicted on the graph? Was the distortion significant? Make sure to record any information that you believe you believe would be helpful in future experiments in your lab notebook. \
\
\
\
------------------\
\
\
Exercise 3: Determining an equation from a graph\
\
\
\
\
---------\
\
Lab 0: Low precision speed measurements\
\
-\
\
-Lay two tracks end to end. \
\
\
\
-\
\
---------\
\
Lab 1: Constant velocity motion\
\
-I suggest deleting the line "You might want to use a piece of tape on the car so that you can determine this point consistently." Tape is not great for equipment and it is even worse for students' learning when it gets left there. It becomes a message to the next group. Hardly anybody ever removes it, or at least, there sure does seem to be a lot of it.\
\
-\
\
\
----------\
\
Additional questions for further thought:\
\
-Is there further analysis that would be meaningful given the results you obtained?\
 \
-What do these results mean in light of your predictions? \
\
-Do you have any speculations as to what physical effects produced the results in this experiment? \
\
-What future experiments might you consider to test the speculations that you have? \
\
-How does the physics of this lab fit into real world scenarios? \
\
-Who cares about or uses this physics, in other fields? Does it have a use in your field?\
\
-If your field is physics, how does it apply to specific things you've heard about that interest you?\
\
\
\
\
\
}