{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf350
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Exercise 1:\
\
Precision of the lab equipment\
\
-Choose an object in the lab and measure its length using several of the measurement devices available to you. By how much do the measurements differ? Estimate the true value of the length and the uncertainty of this measurement using the procedure outlined in the appendix. If you had chosen a longer or shorter object, how would your answer have changed? How can you apply this information to future labs? Record your measurements, procedure, and conclusions in your lab journal since some of this information could help you in the future.\
\
-There are a number of different ways of measuring mass that will be used in the course of the semester. Sometimes you will use a balance scale, sometimes you will use 250 mg bar masses, and sometimes you will use hanging masses. Determine the mass, using the balance, of a 250 mg bar mass and a hanging mass set that totals 250 mg. How close were they to 250 mg? How well do you know the mass of a given object? Does this depend on whether it is heavier or lighter?\
 \
-For many of the labs in this semester, you will be using computer equipment to track time measurements rather than using stopwatches in order to see effects that would not be possible to catch given the speed of the carts in many of the labs. However, in some cases stopwatches can allow you to make lower precision measurements than are available with the computer. You may be familiar with the concept that a speed is the total distance travelled divided by the time it took (an easy way to remember this is from the units-- miles per hour or meters per second, for instance). Make a low precision measurement of the average speed of one of the automated toy cars by timing repeated trials over a fixed distance using a stopwatch. What is the uncertainty of the time measurements? Follow the procedure in the appendix for calculating the uncertainty of the speed, paying attention to the steps involved in division. What have you learned about the variability of the speed of the toy car? \
\
------------\
\
Exercise 2:\
\
Camera distortion effects\
\
-Open the VideoRECORDER software. Real time video should be visible once you open it. If not, see the camera installation guide in the appendix. \
\
-Arrange a meter stick in the field of view of the camera such that it is clearly visible on the computer monitor. Make sure that meter stick appears sharp in the image. Focus the camera if necessary. What markings on the meter stick will you use as references for your measurements? \
\
-How can you arrange the meter stick so that the most distortion is visible? The least? What do you think causes the distortion? Make sure that a reasonable number of markings on the meter stick are in the field of view and decide whether you want to see more or less distortion in the lab.\
\
-Once you have decided how you will arrange the meter stick and camera, take a screen capture using the "Print Screen" key on the keyboard. FILL THIS IN\
\
-Using your screen-captured image and a ruler, perform an experiment to determine whether or not the distortion of the camera is significant. One way to do this is to measure the distance along the ruler \
\
 Make a table in your lab notebooks, noting units and estimating uncertainty. How will you estimate uncertainty? Will you use repeated trials, or do this on the basis of your knowledge about the measurements? \
\
-Plot the results of your table in your lab notebook. Use at least half a page, and include error bars which represent the uncertainty you estimate for your measurements. \
\
-What did you predict this plot should look like in the absence of distortion? Draw a dashed line or curve on the plot that qualitatively describes the trend you expected to see, fitting it to the data when possible. Refer to your Warm Up Questions or Predictions if necessary. \
\
-How does your prediction compare to how the data looks in reality? Do you believe the difference is significant given the error bars depicted on the graph? Was the distortion significant? Be sure to record your analysis in your lab notebook, since it may make a difference when writing lab reports, studying for tests, or making decisions regarding the best way to gather data in future experiments.\
\
\
\
\
\
}